welcome to GUI and in web browsers and
connectivity I will click all for 25th
of March 20 20 s week everyone is at
home
apart from hug and the first topic is
the preview of subdomain gateway support
in a TFS companion so this week I
released better better with a preview of
support for those subdomain gateways I
probably talked what subdomain Gateway
is multiple times so I will just point
at our new dogs website and there is
address and 2012 article with H
difficult way section with the
description of what our path gateway is
what our subdomain gateways and innocent
gateways so that being said in Goa TFS
0.5 the the native support for subdomain
gateway will land and that means it's
time for activist companion to leverage
that's for right now if you stumble upon
ipfs resource on the web it will be
redirected to a local gateway using a
path so it will look something like this
localhost and then ipfs path so what
subdomains to our first you need to run
a go idea phase inversion 0.5 this is a
person from last Friday it will ship
eventually so if you want to test this
you need to run this test version and if
you run that version of why DFS and you
have this better version of activist
companion
and try to load CID from a path let's
open this one so we can see instead of
opening that's on 1/2 it landed in a
subdomain here which is pretty cool
because it's one content identifier
first then you know it's a TFS then you
know it's some local host what else do
you need
so what happened here is this is CID v-0
and when I open that it automatically
got redirected to a sub domain and the
CID got upgraded to say DV one so it
means the subdomain gateway on a local
host is a dropped drop in replacement it
will handle all the requests that would
go to a regular path gateway it will
just upgrade everything and redirect to
the separate orig entire content route
those identifiers are pretty cool
however we have a public subdomain
gateways so what we now do in the past
we did not redirect those things because
we did not want to break original
isolation but now that we have original
selection on localhost
if you open a subdomain gateway link on
a public Internet in this case it's on
the divet link this resource will be
opened from a local gateway and you can
see that the slash wiki is at the very
root so it's finally the content route
which is indicated here is the say the
content route of ipfs resource is the
same as the root of the URL interesting
side effect of this is if we have a DNS
link website historically we were not
able like we are not we were able and we
did that but it was
breaking original selection of a website
so if you open the NSTIC website for
example this Wikipedia mirror it has a
DNS link and if you open it it would
open a path putting all the websites in
the same origin sandbox now when you
open DNS link it will open however it
will open on its own origin which is
pretty cold side effect so when you
browse the web with IP of his companion
enabled after God give us open five
ships and you stumble upon a hostname
which has a DNS link you may not even
notice because like you look only at the
beginning of the address bar and you get
the original hostname here and then you
see oh that house news was loaded over
IP like i P&S endpoints from a local
host gateway and then you get the
correct path so that means also if you
are creating a website with static
website generator which does not support
relative paths that problem goes away
pretty critical and if you want to like
sure you don't like of course you can
like remove that part and now copy and
share however here in the address under
browser action I've been told people
don't know this so I will need like I
will explicitly show this if you are on
a local host website with this URL here
and you want to copy the URL for sharing
with someone you go here and you copy
public gateway URL and you can see the
URL copied to the clipboard is just a
regular it will be either original URL
for DNS link web site or it will be URL
to ipfs resource at the public gateway
so you can share it with people who
don't have activist companion don't have
I
give us a poll and it will still look
from as public gateway that's just a
tangent the key announcement here is
this will happen soon I just need to
question box so if you want to test you
can install it in Firefox today if you
want to test that in chromium based web
browser you unfortunately need to
manually download zip and load it
because Chrome Web Store for even for a
better channel it takes a week for to
publish which is ridiculous for a better
channel so if you find a bug please feel
an issue it will be super useful it's a
pretty like it looks like a small change
but it's a pretty big change given that
and companion companion it is pretty old
software it started around like 2016 and
it's been like rebooting fully at least
once and during this entire history we
operated on those paths so there may be
a lot of like code paths where we only
recognize paths and we ignore subdomains
so if anything looks weird
just it's expected let me know I try to
fix it I think that's it for for this
any questions
awesome you see this completing after
the coracoid BFS work I added a bunch of
questions in there in the notes
wheel dogs of both gateways be marked as
deprecated / unsafe feature very good
question
no it's the path gateways we still exist
and I the way we look at this is you you
use subdomain gateway only when you load
aquifers content in a web browser a lot
of people may use ipfs in context which
are in HTTP context which are not
brought for in consumed by browser for
example if you use W get or curl that
will continue to work and it will
continue to work even with subdomain
gateway we've made it so the request
even the given though Karl does not
follow redirects to subdomains we are we
are able to return the proper payload so
we will update the documentation which I
showed before right now it shows a
custom nginx code that you need to add
to your reflection - nginx or other
reverse proxy to support subdomains
we will update those dogs to show that
like one-liner how to set up go ipfs so
it's supported natively and we will be
like much more specific and prescriptive
when you want to use half gateway and
when you want to use subdomain gateway
highlighting the lack of origin
isolation in the path ones
so those will not go away they are super
useful and like even if you are running
like DNS linked website with this work I
didn't go ago idea fest it's possible to
like mount
path gateway under your under the DNS
think origin of your website so if you
are the owner of this specific origin
you want to consume I give a spot
gateway so that there are no spaces we
the documentation from that another
question existing non appeal of the
gateways do they need to do anything to
upgrade besides upgrading to 0.5 yes and
no so when they upgrade to 0.5 the only
change happens on localhost so the only
thing that we will be set up out of the
box is a subdomain gateway on the local
host host name if you use the IP 127 or
one that will continue to be the path
gateway however if use the local host a
human readable name that will start
hosting the subdomains if you open it
from the web browser if you load it from
some tools it will continue to working
as a cupcake way do they need to do
anything to upgrade if they are running
on the s of the only path gateway right
now they they will be able to enable
subdomain gateway for a specific host
name which of of their choosing with one
line and in go aquafers documentation of
the conflict we already
I believe provides some recives it's
already merged so it's in master so
there is is there is there a reason to
not have this on by default for specific
user agent strings well hard coding
specific user agent strings it's tricky
because you always forget about one if
you hard called browser names you ignore
like niche browsers if you hard called
kernel or double get you will ignore
other users and for example BSD does not
have her or W get they use fetch which
which is common line tool and it does
not set a user agent at all so I wonder
what if what if we I'm just like looking
down the three to five year on this and
be like
we the majority of usage is probably
going to be browsers from a Gateway
perspective and maybe we do something
like we actually have a header required
to be set by non browser tools in order
to get to enable pathways because my
concern is that people if people are
opening up public gateways and they're
not reading the documentation the
default experience is pretty unsafe and
will always default to path based
gateway for browsers and browsers this
most likely always going to be the Lions
here like the massive massive massively
overwhelmed any type of tool based
request so I feel like that looking at
the longer term security story for a gif
s we are erring on the side of a very
small number of tools over a very large
number the security of a very large
number of end-users and I'm not sure
that that's the right calculus to make
just enabling people to start using
subdomains on localhost basically we
want people who are users of IP first
desktop and I fix companion to get that
original selection in the future we want
to do we want to do at least one thing
disable cookies and local storage on
path gateways and make it an explicit
flag if someone wants to like restore
that that's a great mitigation and
another that that's one thing and
another thing will be more like more
strict version would be doing what you
just described like making that like
opt-in for a pass but we are not there
yet we would need to like make analysis
of how people you know on the back end
but definitely we we want to move into
that direction of being secure by
default on the web and that's also like
why we like ask people to enable
subdomains for a specific hostname that
is because you are not able to enable
both sub domain and path gateway on the
same
oops name the subdomain will always
redirect you are not able to like abuse
the fact that you can inject something
using puffs that's why the configuration
looks the way it looks but yeah there's
about doing that and also like adding
some access controls to our API are the
biggest struggle for people who expose
lingo ipfs on the web but going back to
question to upgrade yeah so for example
CloudFlare they already provide
subdomain gateway but they have a custom
convict in the nginx so they will what
all they need to do it will be upgrade
and then yeah and then enable this like
one-liner for their hostname and that's
it so it should be pretty painless and
we expect more and more people having
that one like one-line experience to run
subdomain gateways and the only caveat
here is to use a different host name if
you are already using the domain or
upgrade that domain to being a subdomain
one anything needed for a chief SEO
after upgrade do we do weird stuff there
yes we do we we do everything there we
have a path gateway we have a bunch of
web DNS linked websites and ipfs io
itself like the root domain name is also
the NS link website and actually it was
super useful that we did that because
when I was designing those get will
receives and the way it can be
configured you are able to use the NS
link for the route and mount either path
gateway or subdomain gateway on top of
it and content addressed offs always
like take a priority on top of DNS link
so probably more details here but the
existing configuration is so that we can
continue doing what we are doing on a
DFS i/o and we don't expect
any change there activist IO will
continue to be a park a path database
gateway for now the D web link will be
the subdomain one we are still thinking
should we for like force the redirect in
a web browser from I give sio2 the web
link that that's separate conversation
probably for we need to check in with PI
for steam first to understand the full
ramifications of that change for now we
just upgrade the web link to use this
native support next question are more
local host issues bugs in browsers
affecting us here there is one pretty
big thing that remains to be a
problematic each subdomain support in
Firefox and the way subdomains in
Firefox on localhost are not secure
context yet so I'll link I will put a
link to issue with details after the
call what gist is that historically only
the local host IP was secured context
but over time web browser vendors
started interpreting local host host
name as a secure context because they
hard-coded that to point at the local IP
which made it actually secure so no one
can like overwrite the destination IP at
the DNS level the the problem is like in
Chrome all subdomains are secured
context under local host in Firefox
local host itself is secure context but
not subdomains under that are not but
there is an open issue in Bugzilla about
like finishing that migration to
hard-coding local host and when they
finish that I have seen like movement
last week I believe the subdomains will
start being interpreted as a secure
context I just did not feel that we
should like wait with
Gateway support until Firefox ship start
because that may be like in next release
for now the only problem is you may see
that here actually here is this padlock
and it says connection not secure so if
I open the same resource from local
hosting in chromium it will not have
this crossed padlock it will say yeah
it's fine so that's the only like an
open issue I see right now we'll oh yeah
so like other bars and browsers
affecting us here nothing comes to mind
there's there was like one one problem
with there's this header called clear
side data
it's a header which server consent to a
web browser and tell it to purge all
cookies all like cache everything for
this specific origin and I had this
discussion with you go hook before that
there's interesting fact that if you go
to like the support it's fine it's fine
but then what what this exact execution
context so execution context may forces
all the tabs to reload after you receive
that header so that does not work
everywhere and also like in chromium the
wild card does not work so what we do on
the subdomain a gateway when you load
off and you receive a redirect from a
path just to be sure we we send this
header to ensure the cache the cookies
in the local storage the storage are
purged from the origin with the
subdomain this is pretty like low-level
stuff but important from a security
standpoint it means even if there's like
a gap if we made a mistake and someone
load that like JavaScript or something
from the path somehow still the
browser's will respect this header and
remove all cookies and all storage and
under storage is important it's not just
storage it's all the new API is like
access to next be serviceworker
registration so it's like pretty pretty
powerful stuff and we like will send
that header to just to be sure so those
are like only the edge cases or things
to be aware of and last question will be
will will be willing to write a blog
post I believe they're either there is
or it's in my notes I'm not certified
here this they will for sure we will
have an update in the docs but there
will be a dedicated blog post about
subdomains I want to give some it will
include like user stories for people who
run a gateway right now and want to
operate for people who run kora like
give us companion users and want to
understand it better explain what's
changed in the URLs and things like that
so yeah for sure
I'll stop talking now just like let me
check if there's like any question okay
it's cool I agree that's it from me all
right I think this next one is me want
to do a quick pass and let people talk
about their goals for that upcoming
quarter which is less than a week away I
think just under so we have share the
screen sure I know we have Vasco and
Lionel here they both have some plans
for the next quarter
masks are you want to tell us a little
bit about where you ended up for the
most important things for YouTube yeah
so your story I talked about this before
where I can give a fast inside basically
it was planned to start this quarter
queuing and I started it but basically
the scope of it got bigger than expected
before and we needed to go into q2 and
this my mind go now basically the big
goal for this in the browser context
will be the connectivity with nodes on a
second start to for nobuhle be way
faster because we will already have two
peers that you know we know and we don't
need to discover them this will
eventually open other opportunities
outside the browser scope for example if
we have peer that we already know we
might not need to go and connect to the
bootstrap nodes which will be cool as
well but for another context and
essentially in the second part there is
I have a p0 which is from refactoring
our current code to then persist and add
the key book as well to the second part
which will eventually just respect for
the q2 but the goal with that will be to
also improve the performance of dials
through McKellar confidence in R square
then I have other two less priority
goals for this quarter basically one of
them is related with the user experience
in just a bit we are having one of the
biggest pain points of users it's always
around configuration and so we are going
to move in a completely different
approach in configuration there is also
already one issue if any of you want to
discuss with us so check have already
made a proposal and we will probably be
iterating on that and finally the other
one will be regarding Liberty node flows
because these are things that we
discussed before we title as well we
need to have only
of all the possible flows that a note
has so that we understand what should be
the priorities that we have to improve
because we sometimes might be working on
stuff there is not that priority because
we don't foresee what are the most used
cases for a note and it's good to have
it listed I can also talk by a by Jacob
as I synched with him so a Jacob's main
go will be around the lipid crypto so
this is because we have no Liberty noise
which was implemented by not factory
under grant but they are using a
basically a crypto library which is a
really pain for our been delayed as it
will grow like maybe twice the size it's
already and we don't just want to do it
so before we go into enabling noise by
default in Jessup HP and consequently
GSM FS we want to basically move our
elliptical a bit big crypto in a modular
way where you can you can choose what
pieces that you want to have and not
like bring all the crypto just for a
minor set of things that you might need
to use this will be eventually just for
more power users until we get to like
really easy documents which new users
can like easily yet then the other one
for Jacob is multi other his offers we
have this issue for a while basically we
need to be able from a multi adder to
just resolve it it's Dainius content and
we currently don't have that and it will
be extremely important for for example
we have to know an issue on WebRTC
deploy because of that and the
remaining one it's something that
already came from q1 which is the WebRTC
signalling and the connect connection
operate specs and that since any
questions
yeah but the pierced or improvements
who's the best person like it should we
engage our collaborators to be able to
just test that early I know with go I'd
be fast we have like that early testing
program what would it be worth talking
to folks like three box or other people
that we know that are shipping yes I
profess in the browser as part of their
default stack to do early testing of
this as it comes available so in an
initial plan I already talked with you
go and we will be working on test ground
simulations for these the metrics for
this there is like already is nowadays
and now it will be after the user
improvements at least I wouldn't say
that for the initial for milestones it
would be useful because it will be just
a question of the second start of the
node but when we start talking about the
multi other confidence in peer scoring
that's where I think it would be cool to
have input from people because by the
time we will probably need to tweak some
configurations of the peer scoring
functions and it might be good to have
feedback so I would say just for the
seconds parts the other confidence in
cool thanks
that Lippe config improvements this is
something where I don't know how what
the you know t-shirt sizing for this is
but the feedback that we've gotten from
our collab interview so far is that this
is a as you said something people really
really comes up in conversation so I'd
love to be able to see if we can make
this and sooner rather than later so if
it is if there's a priority discussion
here we have direct input from collabs
around the importance of any config
improvements I I wonder to is are these
it would be good to have more detail
around what type of configured permits
because we've kind of had we've had
conversations multiple times around
saying
faults for for web versus non web use
cases and and things like that and how
we don't have those really easily set up
it would be great if we had a better
view into what these configure boots are
f maybe can link to an issue or
something like that yeah I will link to
the issue but yes one of the things that
we want to do is precise with it to get
browsers better way of doing things
instead of just as we currently do
mostly go for notes defaults and that's
it we want to definitely go on a way
where we put the good defaults for each
runtime that we have and I will point
the link because we already discussed
that English that's awesome great to
hear that that's part of it mr. Lydell
oh six square yeah it's working progress
was overall a I see it like like a
maintenance quota so on the subdomain
part I did not finish the JJ's
implementation just also provides a ste
gateway so part of this could be like
extending this to adding interrupt tests
for a gateway I don't think we have it
right now it could be like an opt-in
because not every ipfs implementation
would have FCP gateway but if it chooses
to implement it there should be like a
test shoot for that so that maybe i may
change that the first one to like extend
and include that as a part of having a
second implementation and instead of
writing tests in JFS we Poe I would
write those in another thing is like the
think of technical depth in like a
companion
it's seducing the old api's need to
switch to the new ones
clean up addressing stuff that's both
internal and external on the internal
side we we got like addressing specs in
multiple places we need to coalesce them
close all the issues which are years old
and something I wrote down what is a
pianist resolution is possible in web
browser but I've made like merge it with
something else because the overarching
plan for the quarter for me is like
making self hosting easy for people who
want to use IP FS as far as a building
block for of their web app and what I
mean by that is like people are running
JCP FS in the river and that Jase ipfs
needs some bootstrap servers and people
use the default ones which are hosted by
activist project because it might not be
clear or easy to set up their own they
may be using WebRTC or Stardust
transport and signaling and they use the
default one because it's there and it's
not easy clear or easy to do that
I know Jacob and park are doing it's
super super much easier by creating
docker images and stuff like that but we
have a problem of not having tht in a
web browser so that Jessica first may
not be able to do everything for example
resolve
IP and s so that's why I probably merge
those everything under like more clear
roadmap but for that we may leverage
delegated routing modules and people
should be able to host their own create
nodes delegated routing modules so that
would include like fixing but what's
missing in go IP affairs and then going
through that ensuring everything works
not just it's written down that actually
doing their thing and that putting heat
and then writing down sort of like a
cookbook for someone who would like to
use it and like self cost as much as
possible it of course in web browser
context it will never be like 100
percent distributed but you may
make it like 100% federated and then
like approval from that so that's like
my it's a draft version but that's the
overall idea cool thanks thanks for
sharing it I'd really appreciate both
you and Vasco included things about
documenting how somebody's connection
types work and how some of the user
flows and access pathways work and this
is really really going to be important
as we as we start doing improving the
documentation around that and you know
Jessica did some work on the audit this
quarter which really showed us how
important and impactful any type of that
any any more of that work is going to be
so I think we wanna lean into doing more
than that and probably in the second
half of the year so setting up these the
documentation of how these how these
things work is going to be more
important especially as we say bring in
external initializers and illustrators
and people who are gonna do work around
communicating these complex concepts
effectively and visually so thanks for
including that even even though it's the
lower priority this also might be the
kind of thing where for for really
pulling back a little bit this quarter
on some of these bigger harder projects
leavings time for for flexible things or
creative things are time to write things
down these might be some places where
it'd be fun to maybe even organize some
group documentation hacking sessions
where we try and write out some of these
scenarios it was really fun to be able
to like I took that one spreadsheet I
just tried to think of all the different
ways that every permutation of how
somebody might get on or off or
connected to I think that's not work and
very few were documented so far there
isn't really nothing to point to for a
lot of this so it's cool that this is
showing up in the quarterly goals any
other questions that folks have for
Vasco Lydell and
the fasco proxy to take him since he
couldn't make it today cool I'm gonna
stop sharing then now I have so many
open desktops this this next one is me
to the minor update from opera it's
gonna ship 57 skinship instead of this
week it's gonna ship next week so we
should expect Monday the current plan is
that opera Android will ship with I
prefer support and hopefully have a blog
post up in time for that next one is me
as well just a link to a galley a maze
of comments on the protocol and their
PRS is our first kinda for a working
with them small projects too will
hopefully lead to bigger projects but
these are experts in and Linux stuff
from that core could be in a court could
bases of chromium WebKit and Catco so
it's interesting to see their
perspective when they're evaluating and
the type of changes that we're proposing
that web extensions any changes to web
extensions is it has an extra layer of
awesome complexity because it's a group
of browsers that are standardizing
around the technology that's offered by
one browser that refuses to standardize
so you have a very interesting market
sorry
standardization dynamic it's a useful
learning opportunity because the PR
Dietrich link it's a draft of the open
ground it's not finished yet we are
discussing and adding more context there
so it's something we we do we are doing
in the open in the hope that it will be
useful enough to get merged if not at
least on brave local discovery yes I get
an update person who will be like
implementing that as part of that grant
he's Korean
working on a project related to covet 19
and that ends around in the middle after
two weeks of April I believe so
around the time that work will start
yeah amiri I was yeah I was starting to
Chris who is also now it's yeah do you
want to show us something
yeah sure it's C so that exactly ipfs
specific but I think hanging up mostly I
feel you guys and they have the schema
define if you don't know and I screwed
together a very simple web app that
allows you to edit IP LD schema and that
old syntax highlight it even show errors
and so if I come in here and type in
download type comment it'll parse it and
show the error bring up here so this is
a very simple little web app I thought
I'd show it since I killed you I got
much of the UI associated with this
since it's kind of underneath the hood
that's it that's pretty cool I wonder
because we got I peeled the Explorer
which gives a very basic ability of
traversing the tree but it's on a back
burner but always we've been discussing
that it would be really cool to move
that if we move that project further to
give ability for people to create like
arbitrary sibour tags or things like
that and it's super useful to see
experimentation
and the last one is Safari changest
storage looking sure it would be more
interesting if I show now I'm unable to
share for some reason yes I saw these
changes come out and I think it's
interesting because it shows a trend
away on Apple a trend away from
definitely I mean always they they flock
to third-party cookies but also around
other vectors for for a third party to
be able to track you and having access
to things like storage and more
interestingly in this comment about
really pushing people towards requesting
access and I feel like you know we had
this conversation about how JSI PFS
right now doesn't request for storage
access for permanent storage access so
can be blown away if you clear private
data all your I professor local repos it
webpages are gone gone forever
a complete and total data loss but the
model of ipfs doesn't really talk about
that data in that way so as somebody
who's a web app builder for example who
instantiates JSI confess on their web
page and the user starts spinning and
storing data there they don't have that
expectation that that data is temporary
or we will be blown away so there's a
for us there's a risk that ipfs looks
like it is either handled in cavalierly
or that your data is not safe or stored
if you're using it because inside of web
page and that story quickly so I I'm
really interested I mean I'm in favor
generally I'm just asking for a
permanent data storage access as a
default for a j-type offense and maybe
that's a big decision a pretty big
change in how the libraries operate and
so far but I am pointing towards things
like this as examples of how that's kind
of the end state that we're gonna see
anyway if we want a web page to be a
first-class application platform that's
what native apps had to do and they have
to request access to local storage and
that's part of their permissions model
so this explicit asked upfront I think
in the long term will lead to I could
just being treated more more seriously
and trusted more eventually by users if
we set up these expectations
that their data is actually safe when
they're used against a webpage and then
the people building on top of us like
the textiles in the three boxes that
people who are shipping things instead
of a webpage also how these types of
this expectations set up by default and
there's no no that really reduces the
gap for misunderstanding the safety or
treatment of locally stored data until
we get sync premiums where people have
different expectations around whether
people lives generally but we don't
really have a sync story yet with I keep
us so this if you're using every webpage
this is kind of the only place that
you're Dena is going to be through the
discussions that I had in the past two
weeks so I feel friendly created an
issue about persistent storage newer
browsers just so we have like a dump so
like some details and thoughts on that
which I to note however each this change
proposed by Safari is probably the the
final push to start thinking about
leveraging the fact that there may be
multiple ipfs nodes in web browser or on
the user's machine we may at some point
those limitations in your browser
context without the browser extension or
native support of ifs make it so like so
severe to the point that Jessica first
note running in a browser page context
is always like just an ephemeral cache
and it even its identity it's as well as
ephemeral it may disappear after seven
days and we are not able to do much in
that regard however if we start thinking
about creating
user experiences around ipfs notes
discovering each other and maybe just
like EFS run it in a web browser
asking activists desktop note hey I got
this data I would like you to persist
that because I'm not trustworthy
definitely that's the space we will have
to explore and I I feel with like
announcements like this we are getting
like step by step closer there and and
we may and we may explore that
discussions with you directly about the
notes the duplicated notes and also
synchronizing data ask like notes asking
each other to persist on data right now
when I talked with people who are using
Jessica's in the web browser but they
have a regular web app which has a
back-end what people do is they
effectively already use JSF FHS ipfs
rank in a web browser they use it in
that ephemeral fashion so they don't
assume that to be something permanent
they don't even care about pure ID of
that specific note running in a browser
they just care about like I give as ad
ipfs cat cat and they get other data
they get cid and then they immediately
are either connected to bootstrap notes
or preload notes on the backend which
they self host and then on the the
persistence happen on the backend so
there may be a middleware which takes
that CID and pins it anatta
or some pinning service or maybe like
self hosted in service but that's the
pattern I observed that people sort of
already don't have too much trust in
that local storage or are they always
like what developers always think about
the storage as an ephemeral and if they
need anything to persist more than one a
few days
they usually have additional like
orchestration on the back end so that
will be interesting both making it
easier for people to self host that's
like the q2 priority for me of sorts
will be to to make it like easier for
people to to enable that sort of
orchestration that's like a short term
and the long term
probably a keifa's project in a web
browser
could do much more in the regard of
people leveraging a desktop note or a
native support that exists in the
browser on operating system at some
point those are my thoughts on this I
want to be able to fight this and the
direction that the current climate
around like privacy those are very valid
concerns and that storage will get more
and more ephemeral yeah I think really
interesting idea to use this as one I
mean really leaning harder into action
taking advantage of the features that
web makes available instead of facing
them as as difficult barriers but also
as as a way to direct people towards
desktop installs and full names like it
feels like we could probably do both all
right at the very least should should
explore well the I think the work that
we're gonna do into I unifying the
desktop companion workflow and
experience coming into this next couple
of quarters will really support our
ability to actually realistically point
people towards that as a solution and I
think like for a net for now that don't
know that's something that I would want
everybody who builds on top it might be
fast to all do that in a in a in a big
way because I don't think it's quite
ready for that that type of workflow yet
especially and user experience who is
not an IP fest user already like there's
there's a lot TBD and yeah and thanks
for writing this summary out because
it's really important like you said it
is inevitable that that is the end game
that we're seeing for for stories and
access on the web and then as much as we
can do to prepare for the worst possible
environment like a assuming that the
worst environment that we have to run in
is only going to get worse and preparing
for the most limited capability there
and merrily maximizing experience in
designing for that from from the get-go
it's gonna be important yeah I believe
we've made at some point end up with
some way of describing states of chase
ipfs not running on a page that note
will probably have like this basic stage
will be ephemeral and then if it's able
to like have some means of persistent
storage that may be like a local NGO
idea fest or it may be like a service
and like talking with the service overly
p2p that remains to be seen but there
will be probably some sort of like
estates for web developers to it will
make it easier for web developers to
reason about it if we have that sort of
like an abstraction we are at the end of
the agenda and other questions
discussions feelings concerns so many as
always nice to see you all here meaning
is always a rollercoaster of exciting
things terrifying things just radically
reduce our ability to do that term that
we had if it's not if it's not one thing
it's another browser world never a dull
day alright take care y'all to see